# Climate Data Visualization Project

The notebook code and output can be seen at: https://nbviewer.org/github/skembr01/Climate_Data_Viz_Project/blob/main/Climate_data_for_data_visualization.ipynb

  In this project, I created data visualizations to help people explore data regarding climate change. I worked with five datasets from the University of Oxford’s Our World in Data project. Three of these regarded attributes of individual countries and continents across time. These attributes were absolute annual change in CO₂ emissions (measured in metric tons), per capita CO₂ emissions (parts per million), and life expectancy. Due to the suggested number of datapoints to work with, I sampled four continents from the data (excluding South America, North America, and Antarctica) and seven countries, Angola, China, India, Brazil, Sweden, New Zealand, and the United States. Additionally, I only utilized data from the years 1850 - 2019. Then, the other two datasets regarded attributes to the entire world and also ranged across time. These attributes included global CO₂ levels across history, and median annual temperature deviances from the 1961-1999 global temperature average. The time frame for the first attribute stretched from 800000 BCE to 2018, and I used the timeframe of 1850 - 2019 for the second attribute. 
  
  These datasets allowed me to pursue my two main tasks of exploring how countries and continents’ CO₂ emissions have changed over time and exploring how global CO₂ levels have affected the climate across time. I used each of the attributes listed to explore these tasks and in sum, created five visualizations, though two of those rely on the exact same data. My first chart was a scatter plot concerning the annual change in CO₂ emissions from 1850-2019 and across the locations noted above. Additionally, I changed the size of the points to represent each location’s per capita CO₂ emission. Thus, my first chart compares three attributes at the same time. I added a drop-down box to allow the user to pick a certain location which made that location’s data more visible. Additionally, when hovering over a datapoint, the user could determine the location and exact values that point represented. My second chart was also a scatter plot concerning life expectancy of the locations from 1850-2019. Again, I sized the data points according to per capita CO₂ emissions. Thus, again three attributes were measured, though it allowed the exploration of how life expectancy and per capita emissions relate to each other. For this chart, I added a mouseover interaction which allows a certain location’s data to become more visible than the other data and mousing over a datapoint detailed all of the point’s attributes.
  
 My third chart was a scatterplot concerning the median global annual temperature deviance from the 1961-1999 global temperature average ranging from 1850-2019. This scatter plot also included 95% confidence interval bars around each datapoint. The only interactivity in the chart was mousing over a datapoint brought up the temperature deviance for that year and the confidence interval. Lastly, my fourth and fifth charts were scatterplots concerned with global CO₂ levels across time. The first of these charts ranged from 800000 BCE - 2018 and the second chart was a more zoomed in chart which ranged from 1850-2018. Thus, each chart visualized two attributes. The interaction in these charts was that if one moused over a datapoint, the year and the CO₂ level would pop up. My reasoning for using scatterplots for all my visualizations was because it allowed me to highlight trends across time. Additionally, in my first two charts, sizing each datapoint allowed for comparisons across attributes to be drawn. In each case the user could explore how per capita emission changes in relation to the changing of time and the additional attribute. 
 
